docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. rumdpy documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Feb  8 13:45:56 2024.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

About rumdpy
============

Roskilde University Molecular Dynamics Python Package (rumdpy) implements molecular dynamics on GPU's in Python, relying heavily on the numba package (https://numba.pydata.org/) which does JIT (Just-In-Time) compilation both to CPU and GPU (cuda).
The rumdpy package being pure Python (letting numba do the heavy lifting of generating fast code) results in an extremely extendable package: simply by interjecting Python functions in the right places,
the (experienced) user can extend most aspect of the code, including: new integrators, new pair-potentials, new properties to be calculated during simulation, new particle properties, etc.

Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   features
   installation
   tutorials
   examples/README.md
   api

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Updated documentation: Added minimal.py to front page. Renamed quick_start.ipynb tutorial to my_first_simulation.ipynb, and made it more verbose.

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. rumdpy documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Feb  8 13:45:56 2024.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

About rumdpy
============

Roskilde University Molecular Dynamics Python Package (rumdpy) implements molecular dynamics on GPU's in Python, relying heavily on the numba package (https://numba.pydata.org/) which does JIT (Just-In-Time) compilation both to CPU and GPU (cuda).
The rumdpy package being pure Python (letting numba do the heavy lifting of generating fast code) results in an extremely extendable package: simply by interjecting Python functions in the right places,
the (experienced) user can extend most aspect of the code, including: new integrators, new pair-potentials, new properties to be calculated during simulation, new particle properties, etc.

Here is an example of a script that runs a simple Lennard-Jones simulation ( :download:`minimal.py <./examples/minimal.py>`):

.. literalinclude:: ./examples/minimal.py
   :language: python


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   features
   installation
   tutorials
   examples/README.md
   api

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
